[Music]
this is taking aim with Rob Sherman and
Maya shown our program today the release
of the family jewels
official murder then and now today on
taking aim we have a very special
program a discussion with Joan Mellon
professor and noted author specifically
of a farewell to justice Jim Garrison
JFK's assassination and the case that
should have changed history today on
taking aim we discuss in particular an
aspect of the family jewels the family
jewels are 702 pages of documents
released on June 26th by CIA director
General Michael Hayden these were
released in response to a 1992 request
yes 15 years previously a request by the
national security archives requesting
documents that had been prepared by CI
then CIA director Colby and initiated by
the CIA director James Schlesinger in
response to a 1973 directive that he had
issued ordering senior agency officials
to provide an accounting of all CIA
activities that had been conducted in
violation of the agency's original
charter a charter that specifically
barred the CIA from carrying out
domestic operations if you look back in
history you will recall that this had
been prompted by the arrest of two
longtime CIA CIA operatives he Howard
hunt and Jane
McChord in connection with a break-in at
the Democratic Party's Watergate offices
this is the famous Watergate crisis and
it exposed broader CIA involvement in
so-called dirty tricks carried out by
the Nixon administration and as we know
carried out by all administration's
against political opponents
Richard Nick F in the wake of Richard
Nixon's resignation Schlessinger
successor at the CIA William Colby
assembled some of the record of the
so-called skeletons in the agency's
closet and presented them to President
Gerald Ford they stayed there much of
the material in the now release document
has been previously leaked or its
contents exposed publicly in the course
of House and Senate investigations of
the agency these investigations were the
pike and church committee's conducted in
the mid-1970s but until now the CIA
steadfastly refused to release the
material as the New York Times noted
this material these long-awaited
documents leave out a great deal quote
from the New York Times article of June
27th by mark Mazzetti and Tim whiner
files on illegal spying spying show CIA
skeletons from the Cold War they note
large sections are censored showing that
the CIA still cannot bring itself to
expose all the skeletons in the closet
and many activities about overseas
operations disclosed years ago by
journalists congressional investigators
and a Presidential Commission are not
detailed in the papers the family jewels
catalog domestic wiretapping
assassination plots of heads of state
mind-control experiments spying on
journalists from the early years of the
CIA as well as spying and infiltration
of dissidents notably anti-war activists
included in this the seven
two pages of documents however is one
important memorandum of a conversation
between President Gerald r Ford
dr. Henry a Kissinger then secretary of
a state and assistant to the president
for national security affairs and
Lieutenant General Brent Scowcroft
deputy assistant to the president for
national security affairs this meet
meeting took place Saturday January 4th
1975 at 9:40 a.m. and it ended at 12:20
p.m. and it took place in the Oval
Office at the White House it's a very
important meeting and specifically a
comment by Kissinger is revelatory so
revealing that it is the subject of our
discussion today on taking aim with Joan
Mellon Kissinger States Helms referring
to Richard Helms of the CIA said all
these stories are just the tip of the
iceberg if they come out blood will flow
for example Robert Kennedy personally
managed the operation on the
assassination of Castro referring to the
Cuban President Fidel Castro Ralph well
I think it's interesting to note that
the number of significant figures are
involved in all of this in this very
document that you're citing hmm the
president is to ask Ford what can we do
well we can get Griswold and Lemnitzer
and friendly and Reagan and Jack Connor
and Shannon and and dill and then
Kissinger says you might think of Rusk
this is going to get real rough and you
need to have people around oh no the
presidency and a national interest what
Colby has done as a disgrace President
Ford should we suspend him no but after
the investigation is over you can move
him and put in someone else so when the
FBI has a hunting license into the CIA
this could end up worse than than
Watergate president wood Rusk have known
this stuff Kissinger you better ask him
and then who
to engage in these discussions between
Kissinger and and Gerald Ford about how
they're gonna handle and Scowcroft about
how they're gonna handle this
Kolbe disclosure of the Central
Intelligence Agency's 25-year
involvement with organized assassination
and mind-control an important aspect of
what they're concerned about is mind
control and that goes directly to the
preparation of programmed assassins
MKULTRA is not just arbitrary discuss
implementation of mind control
experiments but a focus the utilization
of the ability to program people to
become assassins for very major
political operations such as the
murderer ironically as it would turn out
of Robert Kennedy himself Ralph let's go
back to the statement by Kissinger
Robert Kennedy personally managed the
operation on the assassination of Castro
Joan please discuss the significance of
this revelation by Kissinger well first
I'd like to add a little footnote and
that is when Kissinger says about Colby
after the investigation is over you
could move him and put in someone of
towering integrity I just want to add
for the listeners that the person of
course who replaced Colby was george w
HW Bush as Director of Central
Intelligence and he was a person who was
going to play ball with them Colby was
too friendly to the church committee and
gave away too many of the family jewels
and the other point I just like to make
to start with is that the National
Security Archive made this request in
1992 pursuant to the JFK act which had
just been passed and which had mandated
that the CIA release all assassination
related records and so in 1992 that was
a good thing to do now or a possible
John Sayer work just say a word since
you mentioned that the replacement was
none other than Bush Senior briefly Bush
senior's a long-standing association
with the agency and in particular in
relation both to Bay of Pigs and the
events surrounding the assassination of
Kennedy well that's that's gets us
started on George HW Bush the father and
one of the things that George HW Bush
said during his confirmation hearings in
1976 when he was appointed director of
Central Intelligence was that he had no
prior relationship with the CIA and in
my new research that I'm doing what I
found is an enormous record of CIA
relationship between Bush Senior
whispers senior rather starting really
from the time that he was brought to
Texas by H Neal Mallon and in the
founding of his companies Zapata and
Zapata off offshore and I think what
Ralph is referring to there is the fact
that the Bay of Pigs operation was had
the name Zapatas as its code names
indicating how closely related Bush was
to the CIA is certainly in both actually
the time two of the patrol boats one of
them was named the Barbara I think it
was the Zapata
you see so two of the actual patrol
boats used in the Bay of Pigs operation
one which was imposed to some extent on
the Kennedy brothers that they had great
doubts about particularly with it's a
caller Ari demand of us backup with
troops and Air Force and so on and there
is Bush senior at the very center of
this particular operation clearly a
covert op motivated and located in Texas
as companies being formed around that
whole nexus that we're just describing
here now I'd like to go back to your
question Maya and that was about Robert
this quotation from Richard Helms Robert
Kennedy personally managed the operation
on the assassination of Castro which is
only half true in fact what happened
there Robert Kennedy immediately took an
office at Langley he was very rarely in
the attorney general's office and he
pursued his own operations for the
assassination of Fidel Castro the CIA
parallel
parallel track pursued its own they did
not share intelligence largely and one
of the points we're addressing here is
the notion that Robert Kennedy had
nothing to do with these plots to
assassinate Castro which is plainly not
true I could I have so much evidence
here that I don't know where to begin
but I'd like to begin with something
that I one of the important documents
that we have here is the oral history
that was made for the Central
Intelligence Agency by one of its
members of the clandestine service who
worked closely with Richard Helms whose
name was Sam Halpern and Sam Halpern is
reminiscing here in 1998 over events
over what he had done in CIA and he says
several very interesting things about
Robert Kennedy one is that and that
amazed Department of Justice lawyers who
work with Kennedy at the time it was
well known that while Robert Kennedy was
supposedly putting people in the Mafia
in jail and they kidnapped carlos
marcello on the streets of New Orleans
and so forth at the same time Robert
Kennedy had enlisted a CIA operative
named Charles Ford Charlie Ford who went
under the pseudonym at that time rocky
fiscally me and he was sent but we in
both in the United States and
particularly in Canada to search for
mafia people who might help in
assassination plots against Castro and a
Halperin reveals this in in his oral
history has absolutely no reason to lie
but we have so much evidence of this
that I don't really know even where to
begin in this oral history junk let me
interrupt you first you talk about an
oral history this is an oral history
that the CIA prepared itself with its
own members excellent sown agents that's
correct that the CIA has rights its own
history oh yes I mean if you read Don
DeLillo's novel Libre you'll find that
one of the central characters is named
Nicolas branch who sits in an enclosed
room and writes the official history of
the kennedy assassination for the CIA
and he's locked in this room for years
and document upon document keep they
keep bringing in new documents and he
sits there almost suspended in time
writing for the CIA
the history of the Kennedy assassination
sister oral history that's a good
question too it's it's a document at the
National Archives anybody can have it
the CIA contributed it this is the
originator here is the agency file
number just says history staff the
originator is CIA the from the two CIA
employees who did the interview named
Brian littell and Michael Warner and the
subject is Sam Halpern and the date that
they did this oral history is April 7th
1998 and it's a secret documents well
Joan I just but I'm not done go ahead
well I want to relate this to the role
of RFK and what Kissinger Ford and Brent
Scowcroft are mentioning when they say
these stories are the tip of the iceberg
if all that we did emerged blood would
flow and then he goes on to say about
dar FK managing personally an
assassination program aimed at fidel
well by the way some of that material
that Robert Kennedy is not it's not
exactly secret for example there was a
group part of the president's foreign
intelligence advisory board under
President Kennedy it was called the
special group augmented parentheses was
Robert Kennedy and there was a
discussion on August 10th 1962 minutes
available with where General Edward
Lansdale a general Edward Lansdale was a
CIA operative in Vietnam whom Robert
Kennedy enlisted to help him formulate
plots to murder Fidel Castro an openly
Lansdale talks about quote elimination
of leaders and Sam Howard is referring
to this and he shot and William Harvey
who was in charge of CR rifle which was
the executive action which was the
murder program of the CIA involved in
the assassinations of foreign leaders
such as Lumumba the attempted
assassination of Lumumba which is
mentioned also in the new Family Jewels
well Halperin is amazed and Harvey was
amazed that Lansdale would speak about
that input actually where it would be in
writing and Halpern says puts it in
writing and Harvey goes through the roof
it's all out there now but that's the
kind of people who don't know what the
hell it's all about so now you're
Lansdale you don't say anything this is
it it was really took tremendous effort
on the part of everybody the National
Security Archive and all the people who
have worked in this field to try to get
and I think we have to thank Oliver
Stone and for having the courage to have
made the film which led to public outcry
which led to the passage of the JFK act
which really is responsible for the
release of these family jewels you would
not see them if there were no JFK acts
let's remember that and I want to
mention one incident that I wrote about
in a farewell to justice which is that
the head of the Office of Naval
Intelligence in New Orleans
his name was Guy Johnson and God Johnson
was sent to Washington DC he's produced
in the Oval Office with John F Kennedy
and Robert Kennedy and they are
discussing the return able commander the
recruitment of a sniper to go into Cuba
and to shoot Fidel Castro a mimesis this
naval commander was also an O an AI
operative which is how God Johnson came
to and his name was Richard Gordon and
right there there's John Kennedy Robert
Kennedy Dean Rusk is present and Gordon
is enlisted by the Kennedys to train a
marksman to kill Castro
the sniper actually sets forth Charlie's
to get into Cuba is picked up by Castro
never seen again
but this was just one example a minute
where the reason that we know about this
incident not that guy Johnson talked
about it but that Gordon was then really
he was a very dangerous person to have
around and he got into various trouble
and f lee Bailey had to defend him and
of course definitely Bailey's and learn
the story and told it to me so the idea
that no one talks that the information
doesn't become available is not true the
idea that Robert Kennedy and his brother
and were involved in temperature murder
Castro is just plainly not true the
evidence is overwhelming and I think
Ralph and I interviewed Ramsey Clark
together and Ramsey Clark told us that
when he became Attorney General now
Robert Kennedy was Attorney General then
he was replaced by Nicholas katzenback
and then Ramsey Clark came in Lyndon
Johnson really was very uncomfortable
with
and back as being a Kennedy loyalist and
there's Ramsey Clark opens his desk and
he discovers a memo that remained there
from the Dayton Robert Kennedy times and
there was a memo from General Lansdale
to Robert Kennedy outlining some of the
plot to murder Fidel Castro ramsley
Clark was amazed
Amanda Clark said to us during that
interview he had tried over and over to
rein Robert Kennedy in it wasn't only
the plots to murder Fidel Castro that
Bobby Kennedy was involved in it was
also really he broke the law on every
front and I think the big example of
that we may not have time to go into it
today was the prosecution of Jimmy Hoffa
well John I do want to go into that
today but before we do since you brought
up our discussions with Ramsey and their
extended discussions Ramsey and I go
back 30 years but I want to mention that
the memo from Edward Lansdale to RFK
regarding enlisting Lansdale in a Robert
Kennedy plan to kill Fidel is only part
of the story after all Lansdale is
deeply involved in the circumstances
surrounding the assassination of John F
Kennedy and all that rawr RFK was
planning to do with lands their lands
that was reporting to J Edgar Hoover
unbeknownst to Robert Kennedy and of
course Hoover is a figure involved in
plots against the Kennedys from the
get-go so this takes on a dimension here
of a very real internecine conflict
within the ruling class in which the
gentlemen killers of the CIA are turning
on each other out of which emerges the
coup d'etat represented by the
assassination of John F Kennedy and in
many respects the elements that
underline that conflict within the
ruling class over tactics and strategy
are being played out today at the
current moment but I want to wonder if
you would elaborate a bit on the role of
Lansdale the significance of his
reporting on RFK to J Edgar Hoover and
how that relates to the fact that Lee
Harvey Oswald who was chosen as the fall
guy and a patsy for the Kennedy
assassination is
figured that not only the opposing the
people planning to murder John Kennedy
are deploying but Robert Kennedy himself
is playing Oswald and thereby by
selecting Oswald as the Patsy the
ability of Robert Kennedy or the
willingness of Robert Kennedy to expose
who killed his brother is severely
circumscribed well that's a big question
I think I'll start with Jim gas in there
and Jim Garrison's astonishment that
Robert Kennedy did not help him in his
investigation of the assassination of
John F Kennedy I guess and just couldn't
understand it but when we and none of us
could really understand it either a why
Robert Kennedy not only didn't help Jim
garrison but sworn it every effort to
tell the truth about the assassination
and I can give so many examples but one
occurred when I discussed had been a
farewell to justice where garrison is
about to put clay Shaw on trial and he
and he appeals to the federal government
for autopsy photographs and x-rays of
the freer of genre of John F Kennedy in
order to use it to trial and he's a
Department of Justice lawyer opposes the
effort to get these documents Garrison's
lawyer whose name was nmero where's the
case and then of course the issue was
whether the Justice Department would
appeal so that it could go on and on and
and the Justice Department lawyer said
Roberta wait a minute I have to call the
Kennedys and see what they want to do
and the Kennedy said appeal and of
course the Tot timer and out and
Garrison never got the x-rays and
autopsy photographs whether or not they
were altered or not is beside the point
here so the Kennedy Robert Kennedy stood
in the way of any kind of truth being
told about the assassination now what I
discovered from my book was that which
was amazing I think to me and maybe to
many people the Robert Kennedy knew well
of the existence of Lee Harvey Oswald
that Oswald in fact was among the
anti-castro activists whom Robert
Kennedy was recruiting for his personal
plots to kill Castro and he sent some
cuban operatives to New Orleans during
the summer of 1963 where indeed they
encountered I was long and one of these
operatives named Angelo Mercado talked
to me he told me that he was one of the
Cubans this these had never been
identified
- to Cubans wisly Harvey Oswald who
visited a Cuban exile named Sylvia
ODL in Dallas in late September of 1963
and to refresh the memory of listeners
what happened there was the two cubans
went to mrs. Odia when they had Oswald
was there and they're discussing funding
anti-castro activities and then a day or
two later one of the Cubans telephones
mrs. odio and he says you know that Leon
he was called Leon then Leon Oswald is
really crazy talking about killing
President Kennedy and Angelo Morgado who
the other Cuban who was Bobby Kennedy's
represented him was of course
overwhelmed shocked he said he vomited
when on November 22nd he saw that Oswald
was arrested and this person whom he had
thought was an anti-castro activist and
you know was in his own domain there was
actually he didn't know was involved in
the murder of President Kennedy now
Bobby Kennedy when the assassination
occurred immediately said to his press
secretary Frank mankiewicz do you think
any of our guys were involved well who
our guys that's not the Cubans whom
Robert Kennedy was enlisting in murder
of and plots against Fidel Castro and
mankiewicz looked at him and he thought
to himself he didn't say this do you
think there might have been and of
course what Bobby Kennedy's floor was
indeed that there might have been so
that so ever after what we see in Robert
Kennedy is efforts to cover up his own
Jim Garrison in New Orleans they're
looking at anti-castro Cubans and their
role in the assassination what the Bobby
Kennedy was terrified that garrison
would find out about the fact that Bobby
Kennedy had knowledge of oswald prior to
the assassination one of the things I
discovered is that Bobby Kennedy had
knowledge of oswald even before the
summer of 1963 and in some of my ongoing
research I'm looking at the shooting of
General Edwin Walker by Oswald in April
of 1963 this is before Oswald even goes
to New Orleans this is in Dallas and
then when they're a general Walker ever
after was persuaded that Bobby Kennedy
that had sent a memo from the Department
of Justice to the Dallas police saying
that Oswald should not be apprehended
for shooting at the attend
to the assassination of general Walker
well that's what rather amazing now the
document that's involved is missing from
the archives of the Dallas Police so we
can see how this cover-up a really you
know was very well oiled and worked very
very well and gentlemen sorry Mike John
who was general Walker and why would
there be an assassination attempt on him
well if Oswald is being set up to Masada
as the coming the fashion of it's not so
far off from April to November wouldn't
it be good to have a record for Oswald
of a previous assassination attempt
general Walker was a right-wing general
who'd retired from the Army and was
minding his own business and from this
particular occasion was sitting in his
living room and the shots come in
through the window and I I mean we could
only think that this is part of the
framing of Oswald long before the us at
the actual assassination in Dallas well
let's look at that a moment because one
of the mean on your website are three
extraordinary articles and those
articles pertain to a figure known as
Walter Sheridan and Walter Sheridan is a
person who was answerable to Robert
Kennedy directly and had a long history
with the CIA and the FBI and was
essentially a stone-cold
thug deployed to suborn perjury
terrorized witnesses bribed them
threaten them with imprisonment or death
or worse because when I mean worse is
consequences for their families and he
is Robert Kennedy's man and he just mr.
Sheridan is now being sheep dipped by
the likes of David Talbott and his the
recent what can I call it this cartoon
book fairy tale fairy tale called the
brothers about the Kennedy brothers
romanticizing the Kennedy brothers and
representing them and
as the Warriors for peace and and in
particular presenting Walter Sheridan is
a heroic figure trying to uncover the
Kennedy assassination discuss the
significance of Walter Sheridan in his
destruction of the of the attempts to
expose who killed Kennedy and his
relationship to Robert Kennedy in this
process
well Ralph first we have to look at
Sheridan official title confidential
assistant to Robert Kennedy and what the
certain had first of all one of the
agencies that we left out in the
discussion with National Security Agency
which is well known to all of us now for
its illegal surveillance of citizens of
the United States
so Sheridan who is working for Robert
Kennedy since the days of the McClellan
committee where Bobby became Bobby as we
know him and was assured a that would
you date that McClellan I did McClellan
committee had to be in the 50s yes uh I
can't take the exact date no that's
correct we're in the 50s anyway when we
get to the area we're talking about what
Sheridan did for Bobby Kennedy are not
discussing on WWJ ml and net three
articles Ralph is referring to the three
articles about Walter Sheridan the three
areas that Sheridan operates in for
Bobby Kennedy first of all the get Hoffa
Robbie had this obsession with putting
James Jimmy Hoffa in jail and we have to
leave out in our in our discussion here
whether or not Hoffa was guilty but
rather we're talking about the methods
that we used as ralph described them to
nail Hoffa
but John let me just stop them for one
brief moment here about this because the
role of Robert Kennedy and the role of
Walter ceratin in destroying Jimmy Hoffa
and the methods that we use go to the
heart of the Family Jewels go to the
heart of the question of the use of
surveillance the use of wiretaps of
compromising the ability to can have an
attorney and a due process trial they go
to all the issues that the Bush
administration is accused
of embracing namely the abrogation of
normal constitutional rights with the so
called enemy combatants and military
tribunals and renditions and
disappearances and the elimination of
the right to a fair trial and for the
attorneys themselves to be compromised
in the process all of that is rooted in
the role of Robert Sheeran
excuse me of Walter Sheridan and Robert
Kennedy and to get Hoffa campaign well I
want I hope Ralph will soon discuss for
us why the National what why the CIA
released these these documents to the
National Security Archive at this moment
after they were requested in 1992 but
when when I look at just to give us a
little quick summary about Sheridan's
activities for Bobby Kennedy first of
all chronologically Walter cherdon and
Bobby Kennedy succeeded in removing from
the office of security of the State
Department a figure named Otto fot Epke
mr. Ortega was really in charged of
doing background checks on personnel
being hired by the State Department and
he could not understand for years why he
was drummed out of his position and
reassigned
taken out of the office of security why
this happened and when I began to study
this question and we we see first of all
mr. chapter being surveilled illegal
tapes are being made wiretaps I mean
Bobby Kennedy was absolutely obsessed by
wiretap and yeah wiretapping all over
the place and he's wiretapping reporters
and dissidents in Martin Luther King and
anybody who opposed the US government
Warren also I just want to say just now
a little footnote to this story and that
is that Bobby Kennedy learned he was so
obsessed with wiretapping that he went
to an assistant director of the FBI
named Courtney Evans this is a 1961 and
he asked Evans to explain to him all the
messages that the FBI had discovered
about how to wiretap and what kind of
technology they were using and then
after that and then he asked for
literature about it and materials and
then he asked Courtney Evans to write a
letter saying that Bobby Kennedy had
never discussed wiretapping with him and
and had never gotten any material from
Courtney Evans about wiretapping and he
took this letter because Barbie Kennedy
of course publicly after the
off the case was accused of of
wiretapping and William Loeb he who was
kind of right-wing figure but in up in
New Hampshire exposed because Loeb had
discussed all this with Casa de load she
was the third in command at the FBI at
the time known as deke and they told
Lobo about Bobby Kennedy's wiretapping
love then published it in his newspaper
and you know the FBI went with Bobby
Kennedy went crazy was trying to cover
for himself so he produces this phony
letter written for him by Courtney Evans
and then then J Edgar Hoover gets wind
of this and of course exposes that
Courtney Evans had told everybody at the
FBI and had written as such how Bobby
Kennedy had gotten all the information
about wiretapping from the FBI so that's
another example of what ralph was
referring to in Hoover's attacks on the
Kennedys because he really nailed Bobby
Kennedy on that one well deserved
however because we complain about the
domestic surveillance here now by the
National Security Agency and we find the
precedent in the democratic
administration of the Kennedys
that's the point that I'm sure Ralph and
Maya can talk about this is taking aim
with Rob Sherman and Maya shown our
program today the release of the Family
Jewels official murder then and now
we're having a discussion with Joan
Mellon professor and author of a
farewell to justice Jim Garrison JFK's
assassination and the case that should
have changed history we have been
discussing the recent release of the
family jewels fifteen years after the
request by the National Security Archive
their request in 1992 of documents
prepared by a long time ago Dorothy ia
director William Colby Joan hi Maya I
wanted to just go back to now Walter
Sharon's efforts
Walter Sharon was a lawyer who had a
long history of involvement with
intelligence agencies as ralph said the
National Security Agency the CIA the FBI
he was working for all these agencies
was cleared by all of them was Bobby
Kennedy's confidential assistant and one
of the tasks that Bobby Kennedy assigned
to Walter Sheridan was to make sure that
it never became public that
Bobby Kennedy was well aware of Lee
Oswald it began even before the
assassination of President Kennedy in
the attempter case where Ottawa Epke at
the office of security of the State
Department was asked to investigate as
part of his job a series of
quote-unquote defectors to the Soviet
Union and on that list was the name Lee
Oswald , tourist and mr. Teske began to
investigate Oswald and it was shortly
after that that will that through the
efforts of Walter Sheridan all the
personnel in the office who were
superior to mr. Akaka are replaced by
Kennedy loyalists mr. Ortega is put
under wire surveillance his telephone
and also his all conversations in his
office and eventually he is reassigned
and taken out of the office of security
entirely the better that Oswald not be
investigated and we have to I did a long
article on it on my website about mr.
Ortega the other effort that Bobby
Kennedy and Walter Sheridan made to keep
secret Bobby Kennedy's interest in
Oswald and later his knowledge of Oswald
was Bobby Kennedy sending Walter
Sheridan to New Orleans to thwart Jim
Garrison now lies have been told about
Sharon's purpose he was down there to
investigate the Kennedy assassination he
was down there to inquire about what
garrison was up to this is absolutely
untrue and Sheridan himself had an
assistant named Richard Townley who
worked for the NBC affiliate somebody
ought to do some research on the
relationship between the NBC and the
Kennedy administration and Life magazine
because they were all in bed together
Walter Shan hires Richard Thanh Liem
wdsu the NBC affiliate in New Orleans
and they go around New Orleans trying to
blackmail and Broad Garrison's witnesses
to prevent them from testifying at the
trial of Clay Shaw and it's very
interesting that Walter Sharon goes down
to New Orleans to begin this effort even
before garrison arrested Clay Shaw we
see I can replace water Sharon in New
Orleans in February from where 26 he's
knocking on the red door of Clay Shaw in
the French Quarter on Dauphin Street and
that's interesting because it wasn't
until March 1st that garrison actually
arrested Clay Shaw Joan I want you to
just pause a moment and do the following
for us because there
walter sheridan does two things for
robert kennedy on the one hand with
respect to james hoffa jimmy hoffa he
involves himself in using every method
of bribery and of kidnapping and of
suborning perjury to frame jimmy hoffa
with Parton and with all those with
Robert Kennedy driving this operation
Walter Sheridan all of the the of the
crimes against liberties that are the
content of the family jewels are some
certain sense encapsulated in what
Walter Sheridan does to destroy Jimmy
Hoffa of course this is really an
assault upon the Teamsters this is an
assault upon the trade union movement
and upon the working class in the United
and organized labor an organized labor
because as Maya is indicating if we
really look at how the mob is brought
into the Teamsters the Teamsters were
formed by trotskyist revolutionaries in
the 30s by by Farrell Dobbs and his
extraordinary 4-volume work on teamster
power encapsulate how cross industry
organizing began in the crisis of the
depression in the 30s and the ruling
class was determined to destroy the
Teamsters in organized labor
the FBI is brought into the Teamsters in
fact Jack Ruby III you have to
understand that the formation of the
Teamsters where you have cross industry
across the country was a very
significant development in labor from
the smaller craft unions of the AFL so
this is the the history of the Teamsters
is extremely important in 1939 a man
named Jack Ruby murders Leon cook who is
a secretary of the iron and waste
handlers local of the Teamsters in
Chicago literally carries out this
murder virtually the gun in his hand
it's on the front page of the Chicago
Tribune the mob is brought into control
of the Teamsters beginning in Chicago
that's the role of the Federal Bureau of
of which Jack Ruby was an instrument and
an operative in 1947 he's before in
Richard Nixon's house and American
Activities Committee warning about
communists in the trade union movement
and assigned to Dallas to carry out his
work therefore the Federal Bureau of
Investigation
yes this does bear upon the
assassination it does bear upon the
relation of Ruby and Oswald and above
all it bears upon the role of the
Kennedys and as a integral part of the
ruling class in targeting organized
labor and focusing on the ten-ton the
Teamsters through the destruction of
Jimmy Hoffa and the uses of Walter
Sheridan and the uses of these
techniques of which the Kissinger people
talk about it being the tip of the
iceberg and if what all that we did
emerge blood will flow they're talking
about the class war that targets the
rights of all of us in this country
please focus on what Walter Sheridan and
Robert Kennedy did specifically to James
Hoffa and then ad seriatim applied this
to District Attorney Jim Garrison and
Garrison's efforts to show the role of
the CIA and of the military and the
execution of the head of state a coup
d'etat in America well what what
Sheridan did his main tactic was to
enlist a criminal from Louisiana named
Edward Grady pardon and Life magazine
helped the effort by whitewashing Parton
and describing him as you know he was
guilty of a few domestic squabbles and
marna crimes and to rehabilitate the
character of Ed would create Grady
Parton in order to use him as a trumped
up witness against the Jimmy Hoffa now
the fact is that Parton was guilty of
everything from manslaughter to rape to
kidnapping to felonies you name it and I
had a wonderful moment when I was doing
my research when one of the lawyers who
represented Parton broke with him and
Parton had owed him $10,000 here at this
moment his name was Lou marriage and
Parton says I how did he put it I won't
you won't sue me and I won't have you
killed and that gives us a feeling and
so they're even and that gives you a
feeling of who Greg would Grady part
now cherdon illegally it was illegal for
federal witnesses to be paid nonetheless
Sheridan threw he used a an intermediary
an FBI agent and a Frank Grimsley and
Grimsley was paying off pardon so final
apartment eventually gets on the stand
and he's asked if he's paid and he says
not only is he paid but they still owe
him money so he blurts it all out on the
stand
Grimsley then refuses to cover for
Sheridan of course the check was made
out by Grimsley but Grimsley then points
to a document where Sheridan authorizes
the payment but that's not only that
Sheridan had somebody used minor
criminal whom he then could blackmail
and say they'd go back to jail if they
if they didn't do what he said they put
wiretaps and microphones in the rooms of
Hoffa and his lawyer and then they
prepared their questions for the next
day based on those illegal wiretaps they
blackmailed people they bribed people
and Sheridan was even caught out because
one of these people wouldn't stand for
it and he made a fake tape and he used a
name called Armentrout a RM en TR o UT
and then the next day Sheridan asks
about Armentrout it's clear that he was
using the illegal tape so he wouldn't
have known about that name Jones entered
it I know these minutiae know what I
wanted what I want you to focus on I
mean Robert Kennedy was obsessed with
wiretapping
and Walter Sheridan's first job as you
say was with the National Security
Agency engaged in illegal surveillance
and Robert Kennedy broke the law more
than anyone else with regard to the wild
volume and indiscriminate use of
wiretapping and you indicated that
assistant FBI director Courtney Evans
was being contacted by Robert Kennedy
for the latest technology for the
expanded use of wiretapping but with
respect to Jimmy Hoffa what they did to
frame Hoffa and destroy Hoffer I mean is
a police state tactics that you can only
find in Nazi Germany or installing
Soviet Union well it's clearly
obstruction of justice at the highest
level and that is why by the way walk to
shared and then leaned on Ramsey Clark
to make sure that his father didn't vote
for the reversal of the hospitalization
Joan you're referring to the US
in court for you and this is justice tom
clark who disqualified himself but Chief
Justice Earl Warren didn't disqualify
himself but he was a dissent in the
Supreme Court decision because Earl
Warren concluded in his dissenting
opinion referring to the tactics of
Robert F Kennedy through Walter Sheridan
an invasion of basic rights made
possible by prevailing upon friendship
with the victim is no less prescribed
than invasion accomplished by force and
Sheridan's methods he concluded were
quote offensive to the fair
administration of justice in federal
courts and he further went on to accuse
Sheridan of quote obstructing justice
and this is what we see again and again
through the actions of Robert F Kennedy
so it really comes as no surprise
although it will be a shock to many and
there'll be many people providing cover
up like david talbert dozen in the book
brothers but it's hard to do so when you
have out of the mouth of Henry Kissinger
in this recently released memorandum of
a conversation with President Gerald our
Ford taking place January 4th 1975 in
the Oval Office where Kissinger quoting
Richard Helms of the CIA States for
example Robert Kennedy personally
managed the operation on the
assassination of Castro and I think in
our closing minutes we should go back to
Robert Kennedy and his management of his
attempts to assassinate Fidel Castro and
the significance of the release of these
documents well but I do want you to
relate this I mean we show how he framed
Jimmy Hoffa how they bribed witness
terrorized witnesses extorted witnesses
threatened the families of witnesses
threatened the lives of witnesses to
forge a frame-up of Jimmy Hoffa but
that's what he did to Jim Garrison
I want to also say in relation to this
something about how this when we look at
the CIA in the 1970s and we look at the
murders which are revealed in the family
jewels of fallen leaders Trujillo about
which John F Kennedy did not know about
the CIA's murder of Trujillo and all of
that effort and the attempts to murder
Lumumba which failed but you know he was
murdered in any way whatever but when we
look at all that we can see the CIA in a
position of strength now when we look at
the CIA today under george w bush we
really see internecine warfare between
bush and the CIA that kind of mirrors in
a kind of strange holograph the warfare
that john f kennedy had with the CIA and
which led to john f kennedy's death
so here's george w bush appointing a
Director of National Intelligence
minimizing the CIA and it appears to me
that the CIA in retaliation against Bush
and Cheney and Rumsfeld and that their
approach to power and American Authority
whatever you want to call it is to
release these documents because it's at
this moment when Bush's and I think
Ralph and I could do a good job on
discussing at this moment when Bush's
popularity is at an all-time low and
Cheney has been cues accused in The New
Yorker magazine
this week of being malign of being evil
of being and of having effected a coup
d'etat at this moment we see an exposure
of the worst behavior of the CIA which
mirrors the behavior not of the CIA
today but of Bush and Cheney and their
justification of torture their spying on
people through the National Security
Agency which mirrors the spying on
dissidents during the 1960s and 70s and
so forth well I agree I would like to
say that the behavior of the CIA then is
compounded by the behavior of the
intelligence operations today with
rendition with torture with torture done
by from all levels of security forces
whether it's in local police forces up
through all the intelligence operations
with the prison in Guantanamo the
rounding up after 9/11 of Pakistani
immigrants throughout the United States
about seven to nine thousand of them and
on and on the at the revelation in the
family jewels of the infiltration of the
anti-war movements and the by the CIA as
well as known infiltration by the FBI
mirrors what is taking place with any
dissident groups within the United
States today Ralph I yeah but I want to
address to put the question to Joan
poses Fidel Castro was it was it was
speaking about the release of the family
jewels and all these revelations and he
asked the question why they doing this
now and Castro concludes that the reason
they're releasing the family jewels now
is in order to in order to suggest that
this is a thing of the distant past
I think that Fidel is way off the mark
and disrespect his editorial was called
the killing machine here's what we're
really dealing with brothers and sisters
one has to keep in mind that the fight
between the Central Intelligence Agency
and if you like new capital dependent
upon the Pentagon and the CIA and
engaged in the plan for major Wars of
occupation with respect to Indochina
whereas the Kennedy brothers in Eastern
capital considered that this was
reckless endangerment of the interests
of capital because it involved deficit
financing and setting in motion vast
forces that they couldn't control in the
long run particularly within the United
States these disputes with although they
culminated in a coup d'etat with the
execution of the Kennedy brothers as it
turned out are we played again today
with the Bush administration with Cheney
and Rumsfeld the so-called neo-cons that
wind of capital that has bought into
permanent war world war for the
necessity for catastrophic events like
Pearl Harbor to create the conditions
for the pursuit of these genocidal
schemes unfolding into genocide war in
Iraq
the targeting of 60 countries for a
permanent war condition that Woolsey and
Cheney and Wolfowitz and the architects
of this of the project of the new
American Century project will last
another 50 to 60 years there is a wing
of capital articulated most clearly by
the voice of the zbigniew brzezinski
as we've discussed on taking aim but six
weeks ago on the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee when Rosinski
proclaimed there are three words that
represent the big lie of our time and
they are war on terror and Brzezinski
proceeded in those remarkable words of
his to the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee in which he breaks ranks and
stating that so lunatic and so unhinged
is this purblind rush into another
expansion of the occupying agenda to
target Iran even with tactical nuclear
weapons that Basinski told a Foreign
Relations Committee be prepared they
will stage an attack within the United
States and impute this to Iran and he
went on to disclose the contents of a
memorandum that was the secret
discussions of Blair and Bush just prior
to the war being launched against Iraq
in which Glenn was talk about how
selling the war on the basis of
so-called weapons of mass destruction
will not succeed they don't have any
basis for that so they will have to as
Christian as Basinski stated staged a
spectacular event in order to be able to
gain the rationale cover and pretext for
their planned war on Iraq the same is
true now with respect to Iran
Brzezinski sounding the alarm a whole
sector of the ruling class says we would
rather deal as the Kennedy brothers
wanted to deal with Indochina with
Phoenix programs with killer squads with
the assassination you know programs for
which Lansdale was famous as opposed to
massive troop involvement the so-called
capitalist piece of the Kennedy brothers
that Brzezinski is now espousing entails
blockading Iran you can spade Special
Forces in Iran creating a push in Iran
but not a full-scale war the release of
the family jewels at this point is a
shot across the bow of the Bush
administration because the Family Jewels
documents what unbridled surveillance
the abrogation of all the rights of
citizens in the country the removal of
any pretense that there is the right to
fair trial this is what the Family
Jewels is about and that is what the
Bush administration with its Patriot Act
has been engaging in doing so I say that
with respect to the release of these
documents it's to put the Bush
administration which is at a low point
in its public support with the whole
population opposed to this war in Iraq
in a very difficult situation because
they are disclosing that this is the
standard procedure and the Bush
administration is engaged in this very
stuff that they are calling a crime
against rights in the United States
coming from the highest places of
authority we should use as a historic
example when the Cleveland Plain Dealer
published the malai massacre information
massacres of which had been part of our
knowledge and part of the record for
many years before the Russell Tribunal
was a was documenting these the layman
and clergy laymen concern had published
the volume on all of the massacres that
had been filed by reporters from the
field in Indochina that never got past
the the the news desk now why'd the
timing of the Cleveland Plain Dealer
disclosing the MU eye massacre by the
way Jimmy Carter at the time governor of
Georgia called for a lieutenant Calley
day in Georgia to put things in their
proper context the exposure however of
nilai was a signal that a wing of the
ruling class was prepared to make the
continuation of that war in Indochina
impossible
I suggest that what we are dealing with
here the release of these documents is
an expression of that internecine
conflict where a wing of the class is
saying to the bush people this far and
no further
you occupy a Iran you attack it with
tactical nuclear weapons the whole
Middle East will go up in flames and the
conditions will begin to coalesce for a
class struggle in the
it states for a working class fight back
for a popular uprising against the
permanent war agenda of this new Tsar
that is running of the policies of the
ruling class in the United States today
that's the context but we must not fall
into the trap that the buffoons like the
Talbot sewers for that matter their
acolytes with Peter Dale Scott and his
ilk in celebrating the Kennedy brothers
and romanticizing them because you're
talking about a wing of the class that
doesn't want anything resembling the
rights of the oppressed but a capitalist
piece that allows for special forces to
do the work and coup d'etat to be the
instrument as opposed to massive troop
involvement but the deepening
exploitation is the shared concomitant
of all wings of this capitalist ruling
class those are the stakes and Joan what
you have been doing and exposing who is
involved in these assassinations what
are the forces that are at play here
why was garrison targeted by all wings
of the ruling class and primarily among
some of the Kennedy brothers is an
extraordinary service in exposing the
underlying dynamics of the crisis of our
time
thank you out because after all in this
book brothers garrison is once more
attacked once more vilified which proves
your point well I think I would we're
going to continue this discussion and
we're going to come back to these issues
but I would urge all of our listeners
not only to read a farewell to justice
but please go to the website that Joan
Joan Mellon gives the website WWll and
any llen net that's JOA in m e ll en net
because you must acquaint yourselves
with what Joan is done about the role of
wall to Sheraton and the meaning of the
otep cough file and the role of the
Kennedys and the underlying dynamics
from from 1122 to 9/11 is the same crime
the same criminals and the same assault
upon our rights as of people brothers
and sisters this has been taking aim
with Rob Schulman and Mayas shown our
program today the release of the family
jewels official murder then
now we'll be available on our website
WWE can radio.com
today we've had a discussion with Joan
Mellon professor and author of a
farewell to justice Jim Garrison JFK's
assassination and the case that should
have changed history please read it if
you haven't and go to WWll Annette for
more articles on the subject we'll be
with you next week
[Music]